[Music]
well what's up my name's it and I'm from
a planet in a place you call the end
drum at a galaxy I'm in high school and
I have this assignment to find out what
will happen to your solar system's
perfect harmony if it loses a planet so
I poof one of yours away with this ray
blaster and track any changes don't
worry
I'll put it back sort of so let's give
it a shot I'll start with the planet
closest to the Sun Mercury right oh it's
so small I nearly missed it there we go
okay with Mercury gone how's earth
looking hmm no changes in the solar
system I saw that coming it's all about
gravity every object that has some mass
attracts other objects because of its
gravitational force the larger the mass
the greater the force it has mercury is
the smallest planet in the solar system
so it's not too massive in space terms
the second most important factor is the
distance between the objects at 50
million miles away
mercury is no doubt far from Earth so
the gravitational force between the two
of them isn't that strong okay let's put
mercury back and move on to Venus it's
the hottest planet in your solar system
one day here is almost 117 Earth days
I'll try the blue button this time Oh
would you see that it just froze and
broke into pieces and again nothing
really changed that much well except you
earthling just lost the second brightest
object to light up the night sky second
to the moon of course I suppose that's
why they call Venus the evening star
looks like it got way darker after
sunset than he used to be
all right I'll reassemble Venus now and
head to your home planet Earth the one
floating rock in the system that's in
that precious habitable zone the perfect
distance from your star to sustain life
hey I was just kidding I'm obviously not
gonna foofer it away so let's head to
the red planet Mars I know humans are
planning to send a mission there would
you personally want to go tell me about
it in the comments below
let's see what'll happen when I spin the
Red Planet so fast that it shoots out of
the solar system woohoo bye Mars and no
significant changes again this might be
good for Earth in a way there's a
massive asteroid belt between Mars and
Jupiter asteroids as you know aren't
Earth's best friends Jupiter holds them
together with its strong gravity but
from time to time they break free and
start moving toward the Sun no surprise
really since its gravitational pull is
impressive Mars also has gravity to
boast and act somewhat like a slingshot
that speeds up asteroids in the
direction of Earth so no Mars no
slingshot and the chances of the blue
planet getting hit by an asteroid go
down ah finally the moment I've been
waiting for time to experiment with the
largest planet in your solar system
Jupiter it weighs three times more than
all of its neighboring planets combined
hmm
how am I gonna get this giant out of the
system I know I guess the shrink ray and
make it two billion times smaller first
now I can just throw it like a baseball
uh-oh I think I made a huge mistake with
its massive gravitational force Jupiter
has protected Earth from asteroids and
other space debris for the past four and
a half billion years now the Sun's
gravitational pull is sending all that
stuff toward the inner planets and that
includes earth there will also be some
small changes in the orbits of other
planets but that would be some thousands
of years later for now I got to figure
out a way to get Jupiter back before the
earth is doomed hmm maybe this button oh
okay how about this one yeah I'll just
push all of them Oh brace for impact
whew whatever it was it worked
the giant is now resting peacefully back
in its place and earth is saved sorry
about that
must have given you a real scare I'll
try to be more careful with the rest of
the gas giants it's time for Saturn you
can't mistake it for any other planets
thanks to those gorgeous rings
scientists say they'll disappear one day
as Saturn's immense gravity pulls them
down in an icy rain but that won't be
for 300 million years from now so no
worries hmm I guess I'll have to push
the red button for this one BAM
and it's gone such a massive planet the
second largest in the solar system can't
be gone with no consequences look at
Jupiter and Uranus their orbits have
slightly shifted other than that I don't
see any changes to the other planets
Saturn is just too far to influence them
that's good wouldn't one another close
call like what happened when I took
Jupiter away Uranus is massive as well
the third largest planet in the Solar
System
I'll try this super-powerful space lasso
to move it out of the way got it now
I'll just throw it out of the system and
hmm nothing so far looks like it's the
same story as it was with Saturn Uranus
is so far away from the inner four
planets that its disappearance has no
effect on them whatsoever but I can't
say that it did mess things up a bit for
the outer planets alas we've come to the
last planet unless you're on Team Pluto
sorry but I'm gonna go with NASA on its
status and excluded from today's
experiment on your happy neighborhood of
planets anyway it's Neptune's turn
beyond it you've got the Kuiper belt
it's a doughnut shaped region of icy
objects and a ton of dwarf planets like
Pluto Neptune is so close to the outer
edge of the solar system then I'll just
kick it out Wow look at the guy per belt
it's going crazy without Neptune's
gravitational pull keeping things stable
orbits are crossing and celestial bodies
are crashing into each other check it
out
Pluto's orbit is miss shape and now to
Neptune pretty much controls it as well
but it's too far away from Earth to
affect it in any way I wouldn't want
anything to happen to little Pluto so
let's put the eighth planet back where
it belongs but I'm not ready to finish
the experiment just yet I need to find
something that would really affect life
on Earth the Sun is the obvious answer
the mess and chaos from its
disappearance would be too massive and
irreversible so I'll leave it where it
is what about the moon though I've
always had this secret dream to turn it
into Swiss cheese and bite off a piece
it's time hmm oh my what just happened
to the Earth's axis it's so tilted even
more than it was before
the weather down there has gone wild too
there are no more seasons at all and new
ice ages are on the left the ocean tides
have become much lower than they used to
be and is the planet starting to spin
faster yep the day now lasts only six to
twelve hours because there's no more
pull of the moon to slow down the
Earth's rotation there are also no more
lunar or solar eclipses to watch and the
nights are so dark with nothing but
billions of stars and Venus which
together are still weighed immer than
the moon to light the sky up none of
this sounds good for life on earth
so I'll deep chisa fie your moon and put
it back where it was it looks like out
of all the planets in your son's complex
system only Jupiter's disappearance
would be a major problem for earth so I
guess it's true what they say the solar
system really is a delicate and
harmonious balance so bye-bye hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life outside of look